So now with the definition of angular and the different worship is out of the way.
Let us simply dive into it and let's build our first angular app for that.
We'll use the official angular command line interface Seelye and datas D recommended and best way of
creating angular projects because angular projects are actually a bit more elaborate regarding their
build workflow.
There are a couple of files that need to be converted before they can run in the browser and to Seelye
does all of that and it also heavily optimizes our code so that we ship highly optimized code version
to the browser.
Once we finally deploy our app which will also do in this course in the end of course so the angular
Seelye and you can see all the steps you need to run on the left here and these steps are the same for
Windows and Mac.
Now for them to work you need one additional tool and that's note J.S. note J.S. is a service site language
and you might be wondering what are we doing with it.
In this course it's the angular course not the node course and you'd be right.
We won't write any note chess code here but note J S will be used behind the scenes by DC ally to bundle
and optimize our project and will use NPM the node package manager to manage different dependencies
and angular project has dependencies are things like the angular framework itself but also some other
libraries.
That framework uses so you can simply download the latest version here by clicking on that button.
In my case it's 10 dot 0 but that might differ for you and you will get an installer for which you can
walk which will conveniently installed node chaos and this NPM tool on your machine.
Once you've finished installation we can run these commands and we run them in our terminal or command
prompt.
Now here I'm on a Mac.
Therefore I use the normal terminal.
If you were on windows you would open the normal command prompt possibly open that as an administrator
by right clicking on the executable and clicking Run as Administrator to rule out some potential issues.
But in the end you should be able to simply run NPM using that note package venture install dash g to
install it globally on your machine at angular slash seal ie.
At latest at latest is optional at angular slash seal IE is not so you absolutely need to run this now
on Windows.
This should just work on mac or linux you probably need to add a pseudo in front of this to give yourself
the right permissions hit enter and now I'm prompt to enter my password.
You may or may not be and once you confirm everything.
This should now download the angular Seelye from this node package manager repository and install it
on your machine.
Now as you can see you might get some errors in between like I'm getting here.
You may ignore them as long as it's successfully installed.
Ly as you can tell by the output here at the bottom so it added to it.
Updated to packages or added them if you install it the first time and you see DCI and the version installed.
Now the wording can differ depending on the time when you install this.
By the way the general functionality will not differ.
So this did work.
Note that we can create our first project and we do this with this engine you command here which is
now available since we installed CLIA for that navigate into a folder where you want to create that
project.
And once you navigate it there with the D command you can simply run energy new and then maybe my dash
first dash app.
This name is totally up to you.
So energy new is a set command to create a new project.
It must not be test or something like that though because that actually is a reserved word which will
not work.
Now depending on the word you're using you might be asked two questions here a couple of questions.
The first one is would you like to add angular routing.
Now you can just type in here or hit enter to use the diesel which is also no.
And then here which styles you'd form format you want to use and there you also want to go with the
default for discourse which is already selected so you can hit Enter here too.
So essentially the result is hit Enter two times and now it will create a new project.
And now this will create a new folder with a couple of files and dependencies on the entire build workflows
setup in there.
And as I said we need this more complex setup because for example angular uses typescript a superset
of javascript.
So basically a language that looks a bit like Javascript and is compiled down to JavaScript in the end
by that workflow but which also offered some extra features and to do that compilation as well as a
couple of other optimization steps.
We need this more complex setup with all these dependencies.
Now once this finished successfully and if it didn't check out the lecture prior to this video here
I do share some common gotchas and fixes there.
So once this finished successfully we can navigate into that with the city command and then the name
of the project in my case it's my dash first dash app and once you're in there you can run NGO serve
to basically bring up a development server that will run your built and for development optimized app
so that you can see it in the browser the server runs on local host four thousand two hundred by default
you see the output here so you can simply go to the browser enter local host four thousand two hundred
and you should see something like this.
This is just a simple starting screen provided by DCF project.
Welcome to app.
And then some useful links to the official docs and so on.
Awesome.
Now this is our first application.
Now we set this up.
Of course not too much is happening here.
So let's edit this first step and do something more fancy with it and also understand what exactly DC
like created in the next lecture.